#summary Download
#labels Phase-Deploy
#sidebar null

== Download ==

Get the last version: [https://www.dropbox.com/s/fk51tsowolmjwaf/sgdk111.7z?dl=0 SGDK 1.11]

*Old versions*
 * [https://www.dropbox.com/s/ng7ga5reyay51p6/sgdk110.7z?dl=0 SGDK 1.10]
 * [https://www.dropbox.com/s/059zcf44176r9z9/sgdk101.7z?dl=0 SGDK 1.01]
 * [https://www.dropbox.com/s/o056nj6zgxa6k4j/sgdk100.7z?dl=0 SGDK 1.00]
 * [https://www.dropbox.com/s/a4oqp7i7hizivsd/sgdk096d.7z?dl=0 SGDK 0.96d]

----

== Changelog 1.11 ==

*LIBRARY*
 * CONTROLLER
  * fixed small issue in joystick code (Chilly Willy).
 * SOUND
  * added Z80 CPU load information in XGM driver (experimental).



== Changelog 1.10 ==

*COMPILER*
 * XGMTool
  * removed DAC enabled command (automatically handle by the XGM driver).
  * added DAC enabled state (XGM driver uses it when no PCM are playing).
  * now uses the VGM 1.60 _stream id_ information to allow multi PCM channel for XGM conversion (note that each channel has its own priority as VGM music does not contains PCM priority information).

*LIBRARY*
 * VDP
  * `VDP_fade(..)` method now automatically disables interrupts if needed.
 * SPRITE
  * minor optimization in the Sprite Engine to quickly discard disabled sprites (visibility forced to off).
 * SOUND
  * added automatic DAC enabled control (XGM driver).
  * fixed issue with music pause operation on real hardware (XGM driver).
  * minor tweak to reduce a bit the size of the Z80 drivers.
  * removed _Z80_DRIVER_4PCM_ which is useless (use _Z80_DRIVER_4PCM_ENV_ driver instead).
 * CONTROLLER
  * added Sega Phaser support (Chilly Willy).
 * SYSTEM
  * disable library debug info.
 * SAMPLE
  * updated _Joy_ sample to add Phaser test (Chilly Willy).
  * updated _Sound_ sample to remove _Z80_DRIVER_4PCM_ test and add an example of the MVS driver PCM SFX.



== Changelog 1.01 ==

*COMPILER*
 * fixed bugs in XGMTool.
 * removed linear interpolation when converting WAV file.
 * others minors changes.



== Changelog 1.00 ==

A big addition for SGDK 1.00, the new XGM sound driver !
You can find more informations about it in the [https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BztTfEamf-d9MjVsOGN1MXEwdk0/view?usp=sharing XGM driver specifications].

*COMPILER*
 * Rescomp
  * added support to XGM resource in rescomp.
 * added xgmtool to convert VGM into XGM and compile XGM file.
 * removed Genitile tool sources.
 * updated wavtoraw to support sample interpolation.

*LIBRARY*
 * VDP
  * added `VDP_setScanMode(u16 mode)` method to change the interlaced mode.
  * added `VDP_interruptFade()` method to interrupt async palette fading.
 * SPRITE
  * fixed a bug with `SPR_init(..)` method when using same definition, sometime timer could be not reseted and then animation is not working anymore.
  * fixed declaration of `VDP_setSprite(..)` / `VDP_setSpriteDirect(..)` / `VDP_setSpritePosition(..)` methods.
 * SOUND
  * Z80 memory is cleared before loading a custom driver.
  * added Z80_read(..) and Z80_write(..) methods for simple Z80 RAM read/write operations.
  * added XGM driver methods:
   * `u8 SND_isPlaying_XGM();`
   * `void SND_startPlay_XGM(const u8 *song);`
   * `void SND_stopPlay_XGM();`
   * `void SND_resumePlay_XGM();`
   * `u8 SND_isPlayingPCM_XGM(const u16 channel_mask);`
   * `void SND_setPCM_XGM(const u8 id, const u8 *sample, const u32 len);`
   * `void SND_setPCMFast_XGM(const u8 id, const u8 *sample, const u32 len);`
   * `void SND_startPlayPCM_XGM(const u8 id, const u8 priority, const u16 channel);`
   * `void SND_stopPlayPCM_XGM(const u16 channel);`
 * MATH
  * minor fix in min/max defines.
 * CONTROLLER
  * fixed declaration of `JOY_readJoypadX/Y(..)` methods (they should return s16 and not u16)
 * SYSTEM
  * sega.s and rom_head.c files are now copied into the _src/boot_ project folder so they can easily be customized per project.
 * SAMPLE
  * modified sound sample to add XGM driver example.
 * some fixes in the doxygen documentation.
 * others changes and improvements.



== Changelog 0.96d ==

*LIBRARY*
 * removed direct VRam Map data unpacking as it was buggy.



== Changelog 0.96c ==

*COMPILER*
 * Rescomp
  * fixed some issues on compression.
  * now accept string to define which compression to use (AUTO, APLIB, RLE) in resource definition.

*LIBRARY*
 * minors changes to Doxygen documentation.



== Changelog 0.96 ==

*COMPILER*
 * Rescomp
  * improved BMP image support.
  * byte data are now output in word format to avoid the GCC bug (compilation with `-g` flag fails when byte data is encountered).
  * fixed issue on empty sprite animation detection.
  * fixed path separator issue on old windows system.
  * fixed compilation issues on unix system.
 * Makefile
  * Added `release` and `debug` targets to makefile (default target is `release`, `debug` target allow you to use GDB interactive debugger through emulator supporting it).
 * added `appack` tool sources code (compatibility for linux system).
 * some cleanup in `bintos` tool (removed the useless `-sizealign` command done by `sizebnd` tool).

*LIBRARY*
 * VDP
  * fixed palette fading methods where the last frame colors weren't always correct.
  * `VDP_drawImage(..)` and `VDP_drawBitmap(..)` now use dynamic VRAM tile index so they does not erase anymore the previous drawn image. `curTileInd` variable which contains the VRAM tile index where next tile will be uploaded is public.
 * TILE
  * fixed some bugs in the tile cache engine.
  * removed the`MEM_free(..)` call from the VInt callback (tile cache engine). We don't need anymore to disable interrupts at each memory allocation operation for safety ;)
 * SPRITE
  * fixed some bugs in the sprite engine. 
  * added `SPR_setAlwaysVisible(..)` and `SPR_setNeverVisible(..)` to force (not) visibility on sprite (sprite engine)
 * BITMAP
  * minor performance improvement on the `BMP_drawPolygon(..)` method.
 * SOUND
  * fixed YM2612 write methods (can have issue on Megadrive 2 system).
 * DMA
  * fixed VRam Copy DMA.
 * MATH
  * fixed 2D projection calculation in `M3D_project_xxx(..)` methods. Now the camera distance is correctly taken in account for the final projection (adding a minor impact on performance).
 * SYSTEM
  * fixed soft reset issues.
 * TIMER
  * fixed a minor issue with `getTime(..)` method.
  * `waitSubTick(..)` is now more accurate when called from V-Interrupt code.
 * SAMPLE
  * minors changes and improvements on the Sonic Sprite sample.
  * minors changes to 3D cube flat sample.
 * DEBUG
  * added some KDebug log methods (`KLog, KLog_Uxx, KLog_Sxx...`)
 * MISC
  * added `strcmp(..)` method.
  * others changes and improvements.